Dropic has been shipping fast lately and
today they actually introduce a brand
new agentic tool that's called co-work
and essentially it kind of mimics what
an AI operating system does cuz it can
control your desktop and manipulate
different tasks off of it. It's
basically cloud code but for
non-technical users. Coarkwork is an AI
that acts like a real teammate, one that
can actually work inside your files, not
just chat with you. Right now, it's
currently in research preview on Mac OS,
available for Claude Max subscribers,
and if you do not have that, you can
access it through a limited weight list.
You can think of co-work as the moment
Claude actually turns from a chatbot
into a true autonomous virtual co-orker,
something that you can delegate real
work to. Same underlying AI and agent
SDK as Cloud Code, but wrapped in a much
simpler UI that's designed for everyday
users. What makes this more impressive
is that co-work can actually automate
desktop work. You can point Claude at a
specific folder on your computer and it
can actually read it, edit, create, and
organize files using nothing but natural
language instructions. But can handle
tasks like organizing messy directories.
You can tell it to extract data from
screenshots, create reports from
scattered notes, all without a single
line of code. Just take a look at it
live in action. In co-work, you can give
Claude access to a folder like your
desktop. And from there, it can read,
edit, and create files inside that
space. You can even ask it to build a
spreadsheet from a pile of screenshots
or generate a first draft from scattered
notes while you can work on another
task. You can leave this task running in
the background, and it is going to
execute that for you while you're away.
Once the task is set, Claude can create
a plan and steadily work through it,
looping you in along the way, as well as
asking for confirmation before taking
any major actions so that you stay in
control the entire time. Co-work can
also use your existing connectors to
pull in external information. You can
have it paired with Claude in Chrome for
tasks that require browser access. Now,
like I mentioned, this is still
currently in preview, so not everyone
will be able to access it due to beta
testing. But say if you do have the Max
plan with Claude, you can actually
access it with the Claude desktop app
only if you have it on Mac OS. Once you
have it enabled, you're going to be able
to start using it off of your own
device. But if you do not have the Max
plan, you can join the wait list for
future access, which should take a
couple of weeks to get access. and you
just need to simply provide uh your
details within this form which I'll also
leave in the description below so that
you can join the weight list. Before we
get started, I just want to mention that
you should definitely go ahead and
subscribe to the world of AI newsletter.
I'm constantly posting different
newsletters on a weekly basis. So, this
is where you can easily get up-to-date
knowledge about what is happening in the
AI space. So, definitely go ahead and
subscribe as this is completely for
free. Here is another preview of
coowwork in action. This is where cloud
co-work is actually powerful at file
editing. And in this case, you don't
even need to know the file names,
formats, or even tools involved. You can
just simply instruct Cowwork to actually
describe what you're looking for.
Something like a video of a squirrel and
co-work can actually find that file for
you. It can understand what the needs
are. It can even run the necessary tools
like ffmpeg based off of a simple
natural language instruction. From
there, you can see that there's no
command line knowledge needed. There's
no video editing experience needed and
no conversation workflows to learn. You
just describe the outcome and co-work
handles the technical steps behind the
scenes. And this is where Coowork really
starts to feel like an assistant, more
like a junior operator inside your OS
that is able to convert effects as well
as add different sorts of styles to your
video in this particular example. Now,
I'm going to play a small snippet, a
part of this live stream with a couple
of Enthropic employees hosted by Dan
Shipper, which I'll also leave in the
description below. And what they state
is pretty interesting about co-work. The
differences are a bit subtle, but I
think that it does make a big
difference. So instead of a chat, you
have tasks. And when you look at this
query, for example,
you'll see that co-work ran for a really
long time. If I asked the same query, I
wanted to go to our every agent native
guide and walk through it to do a UX
review.
Cloud would have stopped after a couple
turns and given me a pretty good answer.
But this does a lot more research. So
because it's working on your computer,
it's going to be able to work for a long
time. And I think that's sort of the key
thing that you can take away from when
you might want to use co-work and and
how co-work might work differently than
regular claude which is um for the first
time if you're non-technical you can ask
uh your computer to do something and
walk away for a while. Uh and then you
can also ask it to do many things in
parallel. So this is an experience that
if you're using cloud code, you have a
lot with programming. But I think most
nontechnical people are still in the
kind of like turnbyturn era of using
using chat and just expecting a response
almost immediately. And this is much
more of an async experience for
non-coding tasks like data analysis or
research or writing documents like all
that kind of stuff. Like Felix said,
they built this in a week and a half
>> which is crazy.
>> Crazy. which is the new normal by the
way. So anyone who's like coming up with
the PRD in two weeks, nope. You ship the
whole thing a week and a half%.
>> Just a side note, the creator of Cloud
Code, Boris, had stated that all of
co-work was fully developed and coded
out by Claude Code itself, which is kind
of insane to think of. And the custom
connectors that I was talking about
basically helps you power coowork to use
these different apps that can help you
in different cases. Whether that is
something that lets you connect to AWS's
marketplace or a back-end system. This
is going to give you more flexibility
and more plugins to get the best out of
co-work. Based off of what I've seen
from examples, I believe that claude
co-works best in longunning sessions and
it is something that can also run
asynchronously with multiple sub agents
which is really great for local desktop
tasks. This is where in this particular
example by the name of Lenny, I'll leave
a link to in the description below, who
had given access to a folder of 320
podcast transcripts. And he had
basically requested co-work to extract
the top 10 most important lessons for
product builders and the top most
counterintuitive truths about those
podcasts. And it was able to actually
immediately flag the scope. And it was
able to also do this task in 15 minutes
by scouring 320 different transcripts,
which is incredible. And this is a
podcast we're talking about, a lengthy
podcast of multiple people conversing
off of a topic. And you can see how much
text it is that an AI would need to
process. This is just one podcast
transcript. There is 320. So, think
about how fast it needs to actually
process these 20 different themes to get
out of 320. If you like this video and
would love to support the channel, you
can consider donating to my channel
through the super thanks option below.
Or you can consider joining our private
Discord where you can access multiple
subscriptions to different AI tools for
free on a monthly basis, plus daily AI
news and exclusive content, plus a lot
more. Now, unfortunately, guys, I am
sincerely apologizing for not testing
out my own demos. It's cuz I wasn't
actually tested for the pre-BA test,
which is unfortunate. But in the future,
I would really appreciate if you guys
can tag me under many of these different
new releases. So, it is going to bring
more awareness to the Enthropic team to
allow me to be testing these different
products. But that is basically it,
guys. I'm really sorry for not testing
out my own things. I will try my best to
test it out whenever I do get access and
post it on the second channel or the
main channel depending on the timing.
But that is basically it guys. Thank you
guys so much for watching. I hope you
enjoyed today's video. I do recommend
that you do sign up for this weight list
so that you can get access. I'll leave
all these links that I used in today's
video in the description below,
including the demos. Make sure you go
ahead and subscribe to the second
channel if you haven't already. Join the
newsletter, join our Discord, follow me
on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you
guys subscribe, turn on the notification
bell, like this video, and please take a
look at our previous videos, cuz there
is a lot of content that you will truly
benefit from. But with that thought,
guys, have an amazing day, spread
positivity, and I'll see you guys fairly
shortly. He suffers.